>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
You know, every once in
a while in your life,
comes an individual, who has
a profound effect on yourself,
such as the case with
Dr. Art Rosengarten,
a psychotherapist
and tarot expert.
He has been studying and reading
the tarot cards for the past 40
years and has
taught, researched,
lectured, and written books on
the tarot, as well as published
his own tarot deck, which
is absolutely fascinating.
Art, welcome to "Beyond Belief."
>>ART ROSENGARTEN:
Thank you, George.
Nice to be here.
>>NOORY: How have you been?
>>ROSENGARTEN: I've
been wonderful.
>>NOORY: These tarot cards, when
you first introduced them to me
about 30 years ago--
I can't believe it's
been that long--
you taught me a lot.
>>ROSENGARTEN: Good.
Well, the tarot is a
wonderful teacher of us all.
And one of the great
early tarot, I guess,
metaphysical scholars
of the 19th century
said that tarot is a book that
informs by making one think.
>>NOORY: True.
>>ROSENGARTEN: And I would add,
it informs by making one think
and also intuit
because it really is
a tool that opens up intuition.
>>NOORY: How far back does
the tarot card go, Art?
>>ROSENGARTEN: About
600, 700 years.
First made its presence
in Renaissance Italy,
and as far as where it
originally comes from,
it remains a mystery.
It definitely has roots
in ancient Western mystery
schools, but I think
the first designer
of tarot, which
is a big question
in the tarot community,
I think it all goes back
to the deep human imagination.
It came out of somebody's
collective unconscious.
>>NOORY: Was tarot, once,
originally like a parlor game?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Well, yes.
In fact, originally, it was used
in the court as a parlor game
and as an interesting
set of cards
that the nobility
like to play with.
It didn't really become
more of a metaphysical tool
for about several hundred
years, when it moved to France.
And the French saw a
tremendous metaphysical layers
of meaning in the tarot deck.
>>NOORY: How many cards
in a deck are there?
>>ROSENGARTEN: 78 cards now.
And think of it as two decks.
There's the Minor Arcana,
which is like playing
cards, standard playing cards--
four suits and court cards.
In the tarot, there are
an additional court card,
the knights.
So instead of 52 cards, it's 56.
Then, there's an
additional 22 cards,
which are the higher keys.
And these, you could think of
as the universal archetypes
that are in the deep psyche.
>>NOORY: Does every card
have its own meaning,
or is it done with a
combination of cards?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Every card has
its own discrete non-redundant
meaning.
So there is some overlap, but
each card has its own spectrum
of possibility.
>>NOORY: Like, the
death card, for example,
when you pull that,
does that mean
the person is going to die?
>>ROSENGARTEN: No.
It means that death is part of
the universal reality of life
and death, and death can be
understood on many levels.
Death could represent change,
metamorphosis, transformation,
dissolution, the end of
a cycle, for instance,
or physical death.
It depends on the context.
>>NOORY: Now, a lot
of times, with tarot--
and this is what I've
learned from you--
it has a profound
effect on people.
But in many cases, you
pick the card for them,
especially when
we do radio shows.
And then, in person,
they pick their own card.
Is there a difference there?
>>ROSENGARTEN: That's
a good question.
My experience is, not really.
It's almost secondary.
However, in person,
when I allow a person
to select their own
cards, they tend
to take greater
ownership of the reading
and can't point their fingers
and say, you picked the card.
>>NOORY: You did it.
>>ROSENGARTEN: Yeah, you did it.
But ultimately, it's
irrelevant, in my opinion,
who picks the cards.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Let's look at some
pictures of tarot cards,
and you can explain to
us what we're looking at.
What is this?
>>ROSENGARTEN:
Well, on the right
there, you see the High
Priestess is a tarot card
from the Aquarian tarot.
Now, understand
that there are maybe
600 or 700 different
published tarot decks, which
display different artists
interpretations and executions
of these symbols, but
there's only one tarot.
There's one tarot, but many
different artistic renditions
of it.
>>NOORY: Versions of it.
>>ROSENGARTEN: Tarot cards
are essentially oracles.
If you were to ask
a great wise person,
say Carl Jung, why does tarot--
why does tarot work?
Why does the I-ching, the
Chinese book of changes,
why does it work?
He said, well, it works
because it's an oracle.
And what oracles do
psychologically is,
they translate in a problem or
a question into a dream image,
into a symbol, in
a dream language.
So they take it out of
the ordinary reality,
and they move it into
more of an imaginal realm.
They take the thing
that's out of it
and turn it into a symbol.
They also point to the unseen,
the things that are outside
of our field of awareness.
They show possibilities
which are filtered out
in our thinking.
>>NOORY: Do you have
a favorite tarot card?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Well,
I have several.
I have several, and it's
hard to pick just one,
and it depends on the deck.
But I think the card that, I
think, I'm really drawn to,
as you asked me this question,
is the temperance card
because it's about
blending opposites
in a very creative way.
It's like working with
opposites and feeling
the synergy between opposites.
>>NOORY: What is the hermit
card because you like that too.
>>ROSENGARTEN: Yeah, well,
the hermit is the number nine.
Nine is a very special
number in the tarot.
The hermit-- today, we
would think of the hermit
as representing individuation
or self-realization,
and it has a sense of
being very determined
and tenacious at climbing that
mountaintop to realization
without caring too much about
what other people think.
>>NOORY: Well,
let's look at what
Theresa Bullard
thinks and get me
your reaction to what she says.
>>THERESA BULLARD: So next,
we come on the hero's journey
to meet the hermit,
and this is our guide
that helps to shine
a light upon our path
and illuminate the way.
This guide may take on the
form of another person, who
embodies wisdom and offers
us some sage advice,
or it may be our own inner
teacher or higher self
that we meet through
deep meditation
and time of solitude.
The hermit teaches us that
by going inward and knowing
ourselves, we can come to know
the source and, from there,
understand the universe.
The hermetic principle
of correspondence
tells us, as the
inner, so the outer.
Now, the numerology associated
with the hermit is number nine,
and nine is the end of the
numerical series of 1 to 9.
So nine is the
culmination of everything
that has gone on before it.
It's the completion of a cycle.
We're coming to the end
of one stage, the descent,
and we're about to begin a
new stage, at the turning
point, which is then
followed by an ascension.
And so, nine represents
the conclusion,
and it ties together all
the different key elements,
the lessons, the
insights that have been
gained from the previous cycle.
Now, with this ending, there
are some weighty aspects
that come with nine, and
these are balanced, though,
by the fool, which
is zero, which is
the gateway to any new cycle.
And that zero represents the
youthful appreciation for life,
and it never grows old.
But the hermit, on the
other hand, is the end.
It's like the ancient of days.
It's the part of us that's
experienced and wisened.
And it's the aspects
of our consciousness
that can be very old
and yet very wise.
He is the culmination of
all the fool's experiences
in the first nine
steps of this journey.
>>NOORY: Now, what did you
think of what she just said?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Very well stated.
I agree.
I agree with
everything she said.
>>NOORY: That's
fascinating, tarot cards.
I've got a friend of
mine in Saint Louis.
She just started taking up
the tarot card as readings,
and she does a little
YouTube channel.
And she shuffles the
deck and picks the card
that pops out of the deck.
It's kind of weird, but
can anybody learn this?
>>ROSENGARTEN:
Anybody can learn it,
but it requires serious study,
and practice, and a teacher.
There's a tendency to freelance.
People have a lot of ideas,
and they may be intuitive.
And they may jump in without
getting enough, I think,
of the proper training
and study of tarot.
But anybody can study and learn.
When I was a graduate
student in psychology,
one of the tools that
require time to learn
was the Rorschach test, right?
And just to master giving a
Rorschach and interpreting it,
it really would take
about, at least,
a term of graduate school to
really practice and know it.
I think, if a person put
that focus on the tarot,
they could learn the tarot
in about four months, maybe.
>>NOORY: That's not bad.
But they need a
teacher like you,
Art, to tell them the
difference between what's right
and what's wrong.
>>ROSENGARTEN: Absolutely.
They need a qualified teacher.
There's a difference between a
tarotist and a psychic reader,
for instance.
And a true tarotist is
not necessarily psychic.
They're intuitive,
but they're more
diviners than psychic readers.
They believe in the
process of divination.
>>NOORY: And interpretation.
>>ROSENGARTEN: And
interpretation.
Now, psychic readers, some
are brilliant psychics.
They don't necessarily
know the tarot very well,
but they can use it
as a springboard.
They look at some
details in a card,
and that opens a lot of
psychic associations for them.
But they don't necessarily
know the deck of tarot the way
a tarotist might.
>>NOORY: Art, what
is vision logic?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Vision logic is
a next level of consciousness
above normal thinking, which
occurs when a person does
a lot of intuitive work.
They may be in therapy.
They may following their dreams.
They may do things
like this, and there's
a shift in the way
we think, where
ordinary thinking starts moving
into seeing, visually, ideas.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look
at this vision logic, still,
and you can highlight it for us.
>>ROSENGARTEN: So when a person
shifts into vision logic,
synchronistic things
happen all the time.
There's always
synchronicity going on
because they're looking for
things colorizing together,
things that gather together.
It opens up the
intuitive, which is--
Intuition is the perception
that sees possibilities
in the present moment.
And so, there's almost an
organic natural evolution
in consciousness to this
next stage of vision logic,
where we become
much more intuitive,
and the visual sense supersedes
the cognitive logical way
that we tend to
process information.
>>NOORY: What got you
interested in tarot cards, Art?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Well, I
was in graduate school
at the Institute of Asian
Studies in San Francisco,
studying Buddhist and
Jungian psychology.
And I took a weekend
workshop on the tarot cards
taught by a philosophy
professor of Indian philosophy.
>>NOORY: Just because?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Because it
seemed really interesting.
How do Western tarot cards
fit into a Eastern thinking
and Jungian thinking?
And it was fascinating.
Seeing these cards and
these pictures were actually
illustrating what
different levels
of psychological and
spiritual experience that we
read about and talk about.
They were beautiful markers
of psychological experience.
And so, I got very
excited about it.
And I started
studying it in depth
and ended up writing my doctoral
dissertation on the tarot,
in comparison to dream
analysis and projective
storytelling, which is the
thematic apperception Test.
It's another well known
psychological tool
to see if tarot cards, the
tarot reading is total magic.
I mean, it's happening by a
random shuffling of the cards.
>>NOORY: It has
spontaneity to it.
>>ROSENGARTEN: Spontaneity.
And could a technique
like this be,
at least, as consistent and
valid, reliable and valid
as some of these other more
accepted psychological methods
and tools?
So it's a very elaborate
interesting study.
And yes, in fact, I saw
that the tarot readings
could be on the same
footing as a dream analysis.
The difference being that
it came into being, really,
in a totally acausal, you
could say, magical source.
>>NOORY: It's fascinating.
>>ROSENGARTEN: Fascinating.
>>NOORY: When you used
to pick on the radio,
I think you picked three
cards per person, right?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And you use them all or
you just pick one of the three?
>>ROSENGARTEN: No, I
would shuffle, spread.
I'd pick all three
cards, and I'd
read them in a spread very
short, quick spread there.
Normally, when I
do a full reading,
if somebody contacts me,
I'll do an 11-card reading,
and that takes about an hour.
But in that context, a
three-card reading or even
a five-card reading, which
is a little bit more--
>>NOORY: That's intense.
>>ROSENGARTEN: --can be
done in about five minutes.
>>NOORY: What is the rainbow
realm of consciousness, Art?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Well, I
call it rainbow realm
because like a rainbow, which
just appears, and it's serene,
and it's colorful, and
it's somewhat magical,
and it can be seen by
multiple observers,
and then it just
dissolves and disappears.
I think that's what
a tarot reading is.
It's like out of nothing.
All of a sudden,
these cards appear,
and we have this experience
that can be very powerful,
but it's very transitional.
It's very temporary.
And then, it is over,
and it dissolves.
So I think the realm of, say,
divination is a rainbow realm.
>>NOORY: Consciousness plays a
part of this too, doesn't it?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Well, of course.
I mean, everything
is consciousness.
>>NOORY: Are there
various stages
of consciousness with this?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Well, I
think, tools like the tarot
shift us out of our normal
dualistic way of thinking,
a normal adult thinking.
And like I was saying,
we start moving
into more intuitive perception
through vision logic, which
is a doorway to higher
levels of consciousness.
>>NOORY: Well,
these higher realms
of consciousness from the
yogic perspective is important.
>>YOGI AMANDEEP: There are seven
dimensions of consciousness,
which are known as
sepat bhumika, seven
dimensions of consciousness.
Then, consciousness
shifts from one dimension
to the other dimension.
There's an in-between
point, a twilight zone.
That space is known
as stori, which
means glimpse of the truth.
Before the sun rises,
you see the rays.
The sun is not out yet,
but you see the rays.
That is known as satori.
First is self-realization, and
then comes cosmic realization,
universal realization.
There is dynamism happening.
There is creativity happening
in your consciousness,
but it is not through thought.
Because it is not the human
mind, which is creating it.
It is a global,
conscious mind, what
we call the mind of God, which
is there to manifest that.
So through the meditation,
you start listening to God,
for the lack of a better
word, because God, ultimately,
is a word.
There is ultimately
not being who
is sitting there saying, I
am God because that would
be very egotistical, you see?
So that being, that which
cannot be destroyed,
that which cannot be named,
that which cannot be defined,
that which is ultimately
understandable to that eyeball.
>> One of the things that the
sages of the Indian traditions
of the Yogic traditions,
of the Buddhist traditions,
and, indeed, of Christian
mysticism, Jewish mysticism,
they all paint a picture
of these different realms.
And they call them angelic
realms, or subtle realms,
or God realms.
And they're realms
that we enter,
as our consciousness becomes
more and more subtle.
>>YOGI AMANDEEP: You
start having access
to what we call satyajit ananda.
More and more access
to such brilliance,
consciousness ananda.
From that, purpose,
natural purpose arises.
You don't need to fight
or struggle for it.
You see, it is inclusive.
It is serviceable.
Naturally, it will
uplift you, and it
will uplift anybody it touches.
>>NOORY: Does that echo some
of the things you teach?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Absolutely.
Now, what I like
about the tarot is,
the tarot is not a direct ticket
to the non-dual, ultimate state
of advanced layers
of consciousness.
It's a transitional phase from
ordinary everyday thinking
to beginning on the path to
shift the way we perceive.
And the tarot
operates in a way that
opens our intuition
and our imagination.
And I think that's what is
very important in our culture
right now.
It's not just a jump to
the top of the mountain.
We need to transition,
transform our way of processing
to begin to be more spiritual.
And the tarot is a
good transition place.
>>NOORY: What is it about
the tarot cards that
make things so accurate?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Well, I think
it's the process of divination.
One is, we start
with the motivation
to know more than we know.
That's a great motivation.
Then, the process of preparing
for a reading, in a way,
creates an altered
state of consciousness.
Just shuffling the
cards and selecting
starts to shift the
way we normally think.
And then, we're asked, when
you come to a tarot reading,
to suspend disbelief
for the moment
and let's see what the
tarot oracle shows us.
All of these
preliminaries, in a way
are setting the table
right for synchronicities
to occur and to have impact.
And once we then
apply what I call,
George, the prime directive
of all tarot card reading,
and the prime directive is
the card is always right.
>>NOORY: It is, isn't it?
>>ROSENGARTEN:
It's always right.
And it's up to us to
shift our thinking
until we can feel what it's
saying, where it is right.
It's a shift in our normal
way of linear way of thinking,
that we accept, as given,
that there are no accidents.
This card is there
for us now, and we
need to embrace it and see
what our associations, what we
can learn from it.
>>NOORY: How many different
possibilities are there
with all the cards of events?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Well, a
full tarot card reading,
say, of 10 cards or 11
cards, is such a rare event,
that for those cards to come
fall in the same positions,
again, exactly in the
same positions, the odds,
by chance of that happening
are in the trillions to one.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>ROSENGARTEN: In
the trillions to one.
So it's like a snowflake.
A tarot card reading
is a rare event
that has its own natural beauty,
and symmetry, and uniqueness.
And so, that's why
they're so fascinating.
>>NOORY: We've got a still
here, Art, I want you to see.
And tell us what
we're looking at here.
Do these echo most of the
cards that are in a tarot deck?
>>ROSENGARTEN:
Yeah, Raider-Waite
was published in
1909 by Arthur Waite,
the great English
occultist and scholar.
And this deck, the Rider-Waite
has become the standard tarot
deck of the modern age.
And interestingly
enough, George,
the images here were all done
by a young American artist.
Waite was British.
But a young American artist
named Pamela Coleman-Smith.
She's 22.
She's brought to London because
she was a surreal artist.
She's an imaginal
artist, and she
drew these images, which
most serious tarotists today,
still use the Raider-Waite
because it's a perfect tarot
deck.
>>NOORY: What brought the
tarot card into the modern age?
>>ROSENGARTEN: I think
when it moved to France,
and Elephas Levi or Levi was
one of the great champions
of the tarot cards.
It got picked up in
Europe by intellectuals,
who were really interested
in Western metaphysics.
And it drew a lot of
the great intellectuals
when it particularly
when it moved to England,
like George Bernard
Shaw and Aleister
Crowley, people like that.
And it drew a lot of
people at the turn
of the 20th century
in the beginning, who
became very fascinated with that
Theasophie, and spiritualism,
and these types of movements.
And from there, in the 20th
century, it migrated to the US
in the '60s.
And there are the great
relevance of Jungian
and humanistic psychology
started in the '60s basically
saw a natural resonance
with the tarot deck.
And so, that's when
I learned the tarot.
So it took more of a
psychological turn,
psychospiritual turn, starting
in the '60s until now.
>>NOORY: Tarot seems to be
very interested these days.
It seems to be on the uptick.
Is that true?
>>ROSENGARTEN: I think popular
culture, today, is now--
it's a whole new world with
this younger generation.
And I think there are segments
that are now bringing it
into the information age.
Though, I'm not clear
that it's on the uptick.
I think there's a dumbed down
popularization of the tarot.
But serious study
of the tarot, it
remains to be seen if the
younger generations are
going to take it on the way,
say, our generation did.
>>NOORY: Well, Gaia News went
out to find out that question.
>>ROSENGARTEN: OK.
>> Tarot and oracle decks
for divination are the best
Sellers.
US Game Systems, a leading
publisher of tarot cards,
tells the Financial
Times, they've
had to double their print
runs in the past year
because they sell out so fast.
It's not just tarot.
The "New York Times"
reports data from Yelp,
showing searches for
supernatural readings
more than doubled in April.
Why are so many people
turning to these methods now?
Mitch Horowitz, author
of "The Seeker's
Guide to the Secret Teachings
of All Ages" explains.
>>MITCH HOROWITZ: People are
interested because there's
truth in these things.
They discover truth
in these things,
just like they discover truth
in therapy, and in philosophy,
and in spirituality.
So people gravitate to
things, where there's
some sense of discovery.
>> Throughout history, people
have sought their own path
to self-discovery and healing,
especially during times
of uncertainty.
>>HOROWITZ: It's
important to keep
in mind that the occult and
the esoteric are evergreens.
They're a permanent fixture of
our culture and our society.
There does seem to be
an uptick of interest
during periods of crisis.
For example, during
the Civil War,
there was an uptick of
interest in spiritualism,.
The same was true during World
War I. During World War II,
sales of the Ouija
board doubled.
So when people are
anxious, they seek
to avail themselves of
insight, whether it's
spiritual, or therapeutic,
or occult in nature.
>> The act of tarot reading
is the ultimate do-it-yourself
entry into the
esoteric teachings.
Some believe there is a
form of channeled energy
from the cards.
>>HOROWITZ: I perform
tarot readings myself,
mostly in private.
And I ask myself the question,
is there anything here,
or is this just a Rorschach?
Is this just a random draw?
And I think there's
a possibility
that certain divinity
pictograms or tools, like tarot
or the I-Ching,
they may represent
a kind of frozen snapshot
in time that gives us
a sense of everything that's
going on all around us
at a given moment.
If one accepts that time
itself, linear time,
is really just an
illusion, we've
been able to prove that to
ourselves in various ways.
And hence, tarot
seems to give us
a broader perspective on what's
going on than we normally
have access to.
>>NOORY: It's pretty
dramatic, isn't it?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Well said.
I agree with a lot
of what he said.
One thing he talked about is
the Rorschach, mentioning like,
is this just an inkblot
that we project whatever we
want to project or see in it?
And I would say
that a tarot card
is different than a
Rorschach because it
does have a projective level,
and that's the first level.
I'll show a card and say, well,
what's this card saying to you?
What comes up for you?
What do you see in this card?
But the tarot also
has a second level,
and it has meaning
from its own side.
So you might say, well,
I think this card is
all about what I'm doing here
and what I'm thinking here.
And I'll say, OK,
that's important.
And we can talk more about that.
Let me tell you a little
bit about that this tarot
card means from its own
side in terms of, say,
500 years of
scholarship and study
by leading commentators
and scholars of the tarot.
And then, together, we
will try to find a click.
So what I call,
saying, oh, OK, now I
know where that's at for me.
Now, I'm a psychologist.
>>NOORY: That helps you.
>>ROSENGARTEN: It
helps me personally.
But I've always been
about, hey, this
is a tool that
professional psychologists,
and social workers,
and therapists,
and psychiatrists ought
to avail themselves of.
And here, we get into a
little bit more controversy
because the medical
establishment
has their own lock
on what they see
as acceptable, valid,
ethical practices.
So they misunderstand
how the tarot
might be used as a supplemental
tool in a wide range
of therapeutic tools.
For instance, they
may do dream work.
The tarot is maybe more
effective than dream work.
There's a lot of tools
and psychotherapy
that are accepted.
But when we come to
these tarot cards,
the tarot carries a
lot of shadow content.
And so, I've been on the edge of
trying to take out the Woo Woo
quality of it and
say, look, this
is about symbols
and synchronicity.
And tarot cards tend to
show the bigger picture,
and that's what my
patients basically say.
But they have to
be used skillfully
within the context of therapy.
That's my orientation to it.
>>NOORY: How does tarot
tie into divination?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Well,
divination is the method
that sets a tarot reading up.
That's what a tarot reading is.
Divination is blind selection.
It's the preparation of
a reading that sets up
the mood, that is
blind selection
from a large set of unknowns.
And then, there is supreme
focus on what arises momentarily
in the present moment in
a card and the invitation
to associate to it and to feel
and to take a look at what that
is saying to you right now.
So that's how tarot
readings are divination.
>>NOORY: Carl Jung, the
psychiatrist, dealt with tarot?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Interesting.
Carl Jung was
really very involved
with the I-Ching the Chinese
divination divination tool.
He only makes one mention in
his collected works of the tarot
because he never really got
around to it, because he
was doing so many things.
But what Jung says
in his writings is,
it seems that the tarot
deck captures the archetypes
of transformation.
And I think that's
how Jung would see it,
that the symbols of
the Major Arcana.
in particular, are a special
set of universal archetypal
realities that we all have.
And they're a special set of
archetypes of transformation
to higher human consciousness.
So those hierarchies are really
images of higher potentialities
of the human mind.
>>NOORY: What about intuition?
Where does that come in?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Intuition
is the function
that allows us spontaneously
to perceive possibilities
in the present moment.
And when you enter in
to a divinatory process,
it invites intuition.
The imagery is the
language of intuition--
images, pictures.
When we relate
directly to a picture,
and we apprehend, which
means, we relate to it
without interpreting it.
We just feel it
until we get a click.
Then, we can offer
an interpretation.
That is actually the
vehicle to the intuitive.
>>NOORY: I want you to
do a reading for me, Art.
And through the
magic of television,
we will make your
tarot cards appear.
You ready?
>>ROSENGARTEN: I am.
>>NOORY: 1, 2, 3.
You're going to
give me a reading.
>>ROSENGARTEN: All right.
>>NOORY: Let's
say, what do we do?
>>ROSENGARTEN: OK, so now,
here, we have two decks.
This is my deck,
tarot of nine paths.
I use this for deeper,
more spiritual questions.
>>NOORY: OK.
This is the Raider-Waite
deck, the full 78
cards of the Raider-Waite,
which we talked about.
This we do for more,
what we might call,
domestic questions about
your life, what to do,
what's happening in the world.
So I would ask you, do you
have a question, George?
>>NOORY: All right,
a life question?
>>ROSENGARTEN: It can be a
domestic or an essential deeper
question.
It can be about you
personally, or can it
be about anything else.
>>NOORY: Well,
let's talk-- let's
do one about this country,
the United States.
>>ROSENGARTEN: Very good.
>>NOORY: People seem to
be sad, depressed, angry.
Will we get out of that mess?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Great question.
I would say, let's
use this deck,
and we'll do the
three-card reading, OK?
>>ROSENGARTEN: OK.
So I'm going to
ask you, when I'm
going to give you the
instruction of selecting
the cards, you're going to
pull it and not turn it over.
You're just going
to hand it to me--
>>NOORY: Down?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Down.
So the first card, we're
talking about America.
Now, this card is what
the way it appears now.
OK, we'll put that right here.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>ROSENGARTEN: And the next
card is, what's really going on.
>>NOORY: There you go.
>>ROSENGARTEN: OK.
And then, the third card
is what we need now.
Very good.
Now, I'm going to remove this
other deck, so we can now--
>>NOORY: You want these
shuffled together, or can they--
>>ROSENGARTEN: Yeah, we
can remove that, too.
We'll just look at
these three cards, OK?
And America, right?
1, 2, 3.
And so, the first card
that we chose for this
is the way America appears
now in terms of what's
going on with our time.
And so, the card that we
got, George, is the lovers.
That seems
counterintuitive in a way,
which is an agent of union, OK?
Now, the way I would interpret
that, given the question
and given what
we're talking about
is, the American union, right
now, got a real problem.
We've got a real problem.
And America, in principle,
was formed, we could say,
on the principle of
the lovers, which
is a union of opposites and
inclusion, in a way, I think,
that's in our Constitution.
That's in our basis.
So now, you ask the question,
what's going on with America?
And it's saying,
well, it appears
that the issue of the Union, of
the nation is what's going on.
>>NOORY: Split apart.
>>ROSENGARTEN:
It's falling apart.
But that's how it appears.
Now, what's really
going on right now?
>>NOORY: The magician.
>>ROSENGARTEN: Which
is an agent of--
>>NOORY: A sleight
of hand is happening.
>>ROSENGARTEN: What's that?
>>NOORY: A sleight of
hand that's happening.
>>ROSENGARTEN: No, not
sleight of hand in tarot.
The magician is about
visualization, focus,
intention.
And my belief is
that that's part
of the problem is that America
is not united in its intention.
We don't know what we're
shooting for in a united way.
And so, we can't use the
magician, where there's
so much talent in this
country and potential
to create new things,
to magically bring
about the types of
radical changes,
I think, are called for right
now because we're divided.
And so, I think what's really
going on is, we could say,
we're needing to use
our creative magician
to solve the really challenging
problems that probably
are related to,
we're not united,
but we're based on united.
Our Constitution is
about one nation,
and it's polarized tremendously.
And the polarization
is blocking our ability
to use our imagination, our
visualization, our intention
of the magician to really
deal with the serious issues
that we have.
Now, that's how I would
work with these question,
these cards.
Now, the final position
here is what we need now.
And here, this is
the judgment card--
>>NOORY: Awakening.
>>ROSENGARTEN: --and it's
an agent of awakening.
Now is the time, the call, the
final judgment, the decision,
the decision.
We need to wake up now
and act as one nation.
>>NOORY: Or?
Maybe a fourth card
will tell us that?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Why don't
we pick from this deck
for the fourth card?
I'm going to let
you pick it, George.
Or--
>>NOORY: Or the one card.
>>ROSENGARTEN: --one card, you
put it right in front of you.
>>NOORY: A chariot.
>>ROSENGARTEN: OK.
>>NOORY: What does
that mean, Art?
The chariot is the quest--
the quest and the challenge.
And the chariot travels
across the skies,
across a wide expanse, bringing
teachings of higher wisdom.
The chariot is carrying the
Holy Grail in the chariot.
>>NOORY: So there's hope for us?
>>ROSENGARTEN: I think the
higher teachings, the higher
wisdom, which is
always about love.
It's always about higher
universal love, which
unites the whole world, there
is hope for that message
to arise to manifest.
Without it, there's a
lot of hopelessness.
We need something
that large and deep
because the polarization,
the lack of union
is blocking our ability for
the creative problem solving
of the magician.
And that's what we need.
We need to use our,
I'm going to say,
magical powers to
solve major problems.
And I'm not talking magical
problems using creative problem
solving, visualizing.
>>NOORY: Art, how do
people get a hold of you?
>>ROSENGARTEN: Go to my website,
moonlightcounseling.com.
>>NOORY: Simple.
>>ROSENGARTEN: Simple.
And they can set up
a reading with me
or a counseling session,
whatever they like.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>ROSENGARTEN: My pleasure.
Pleasure seeing you.
>>NOORY: Always a
pleasure seeing you.
The tarot card, they
determine your future.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."